---
title: "Review: Crossing the Bay of Bengal, Sunil Amrith"
date; 2022-04-30
---
I picked up **Crossing the Bay of Bengal: The Furies of Nature and the Fortunes of Migrants** in a second hand bookstore in New York City last year. I knew little about Sunil Amrith’s work beyond the facts that he studied maritime history and had recently moved to Yale’s history department, sufficient to pique my interest. I am so grateful to impulse book shopper Surbhi for this decision. 

This is a fantastic history of migration across the Bay of Bengal and the multiple centuries of documented history (and likely millennia more we will never learn of) that have connected the countries that inhabit its rim. Amrith’s writing is imminently readable and profound. He interweaves individuals’ anecdotes about love and grief with broader observations on the creation of the modern nation state and the changing role of the Bay of Bengal in its inhabitants’ imaginations. I’ve always been fascinated by the Indian diaspora and especially communities in non-Western countries (motivated in no small part by Vinay Lal’s great course on [The Global Indian Diaspora](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLy3KRgc0HE8B_bhlffm8DfhVT35teOefE)). Amrith deftly traces long histories of circular migration and settlement across the countries that surround the Bay. Much of this content was unfamiliar if not entirely new to me (Tamil laborers built the Thai railway, there was a large exodus of Indians from Burma during WWII etc.). It’s easy to think of globalization and international migration as a 20th century phenomenon but, as Amrith lays out with poignant stories, people have been traversing “borders” and moving to unknown lands for centuries. 

In many ways this book was the Bay of Bengal version of some Arabian Sea realisations from my time in Kenya a few weeks ago. In Mnarani on the eastern coast of Africa, just north of Mombasa, I saw evidence of Arab and Indian influences that are so fully absorbed into the local fabric, so as to be almost unnoticeable — ruins of a [14th century mosque](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mnarani_ruins) (related to the more famous [Gede ruins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruins_of_Gedi) nearby) and influences in cuisine ([Kachumber](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kachumber) cast as [Kachumbari](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kachumbari), pulao as pilao) to name two.  Similarly in the Bay of Bengal, the movement of people variously identifying as Tamil, Muslim, Chinese, Malay, Buddhist, traders, laborers, merchants etc. led to creation of syncretic traditions we continue to see today.  Amrith ends his book by talking about the [Loyang temple](http://lytpk.org.sg/about.htm) in Singapore, a unique structure combining architecture and worship from Hinduism and Daoism. 

I found the last few chapters especially powerful, where Amrith explores the changes in the Bay with the decline of the British Empire and the creation of the modern nation state. Where previously people could freely travel from India to Singapore to Ceylon to Burma, all territories part of the British Empire, now borders were being erected and citizenships being defined. 

The book also made me think about the acceptance of the nation state as a fundamental organising structure for modern life — from institutions and politics to identities and culture. Amrith writes, “Not even at the height of migration in the 1920s, did a _political_ narrative emerge to unite the Bay of Bengal. No politician said of the Bay’s coasts, as they did of the nations they imagined, ’This is the world we share, and our fates are linked.’” What would it mean for us to identify as inhabitants of the Bay of Bengal instead of Indians, Burmese, Malaysians? Why does nationalism “provoke powerful emotions of attachment to land and landscape but not to the sea”?

Amrith talks about how the sea has largely receded from the popular imagination in an era of plane travel. What was once the most vibrant medium for trade and travel, most of us now assume “empty” space. I lived in New Haven, purportedly a port city, for 4 years and can count on the fingers of one hand the number of times I saw the sea. This book was a wonderful start to what I hope will be more learning about 70% of our planet. 